Hello and welcome back to the courts on artificial intelligence.
I hope you're excited about today's tutorial because we are taking a very first step into the world
of A.I. and today we're talking about reinforcement learning.
It's a very important story because it will underpin everything else is going to be happen in this course.
So let's get started here we've got a little maze.
And this maze is our representation of an environment and that's what we're going to be dealing with
in this course.
We're going to be dealing with certain environments in which our artificial intelligence is going to
be performing.
It's going to be taking actions it's going to be looking to beat these environments going she'll be
looking to win in these environments.
And here we've got an agent.
The agent is our artificial intelligence.
That's the person or that's the mind that's going to be navigating these environments and learning from
the feedback that their minds are going to be giving it in order to perform certain actions.
And so the way it works is the agent performs certain actions in this environment.
And as a result the state in which it is in will change.
So it might be further or closer or more to the left more to the right it might have a certain other
other parameters that describe its state and those parameters are going to change.
The state is going to change because of the action takes and it will also get rewards based on the actions
every time it takes an action the state will change and it'll get a reward.
Now bear in mind sometimes it might happen that it won't change the state.
The action won't change a state or there won't be a reward for taking that action in that certain state
it was.
But nevertheless the agents going to keep doing that is going to be taking actions changing the state
getting rewards changing action taking actions.
Changing the state and getting rewards and by doing that process it's going to be learning about the
environment's going to be exploring the environment understanding what actions lead to good rewards
and favorable states and what actions lead to bad rewards and unfavorable states.
And this is a very simplistic representation of a very global problem.
So if you think about it environments actually don't have to be just mazes.
It's not just about getting out of a maze or finding a treasure in a maze an environment can be pretty
much anything in life.
So imagine you waking up in the morning and cooking an omelet.
So in order to make that omelet you need to go through certain steps you need to get the salt get the
eggs get the frying pan switch the fire on and so on.
It does sound like a routine mundane thing but it's become routine because you've done it so many times.
But in reality it's an environment where you're performing certain actions you're taking that you're
putting the fire on you're putting a frying pan on the fire you're putting all the eggs into the frying
pan and you're putting some salt on the eggs and turning over and so on.
So as you can see there are certain actions actions which are taking in certain states and those actions
lead to certain other states and sometimes reward.
So for instance when you put the fire on and you wait wait wait wait wait you take an action Wait wait
wait wait too long and then you put the eggs into the frying pan.
The rewards are going to be very negative.
Is it all going to burn on the other hand if you do all that at all the correct actions in the correct
times.
So it's also very important to understand that the actions should be taken at the correct points in
time.
So for instance putting the salt in the frying pan before you put the eggs in might not be the best
idea.
You might want to take that action of putting the salt into the frying pan after the eggs are in there.
So in the in a different state.
So it's important to remember that.
And at the same time.
So if you take all the correct actions in the correct order in the correct states your final reward
could be that you get an omelet which you can eat.
And so that's a very basic activity in your life.
But if you think about it it is actually an environment and you are the agent going through this environment
and performing tasks you don't really need to learn anything because you really know it pretty well.
But at same time you could learn maybe you could learn how to make a better omelet or especially if
it's your first omelet that you're making you're probably going to screw it up but you will learn from
that because you will understand what actions lead towards states and rewards and anything else in life.
For instance even trading on the stock market and buying and selling and getting certain feedback from
the market in the sense of return positive or negative returns.
That's also an environment that's you participating in that moment as an agent driving a car is also
an environment where you can turn the steering wheel you can accelerate you can break and so on and
you're getting feedback from the environment and you're one of those feedbacks Is that policeman giving
you a speeding fine if you're going above the acceptable or allowed speed limit on that highway and
therefore from there you learn that OK.
That's not something that should be done because it leads to a negative reward.
So rewards don't have to be just at the very end of the process they can be throughout the journey throughout
the process.
So those are a couple of examples.
And in terms of A.I. the simplest way to think of reinforcement learning is like training a dog when
you train a dog you to give it certain commands and if it obeys those commands then you give it a treat
you give it like a biscuit or something.
If it doesn't obey those commands you tell it that it's a bad dog or you just don't give it a treat.
And through that process it learns what certain commands or what what it needs to do what action it
needs to take in certain states and the states are the commands that you are giving it.
And based on that it will get some certain rewards.
Of course in the world of A.I. it's not that complex that you don't have to give the A.I. treats you
don't have to have like a bag of biscuits with you every time you just give it a plus one or a minus
one.
So it's a huge advantage that in the world of A.I. we've created these eyes ourselves so the rewards
that we're giving them.
If you think wow this is really cool.
The rewards you're giving them they don't actually exist.
There's just a plus or minus one or a plot on a one or a zero or something.
So it's all nonexistence all imaginary stuff.
But at the same time it leads to great resources.
We can create these amazing things these amazing artificial intelligence has by this amazing artificial
intelligence by just providing rewards which don't really exist the plus and minus one that doesn't
cost us anything about Sametime release results.
So very similar to real world.
And you know that example dogs.
But here the rewards are digital and just numbers.
And with that in mind we can talk about a little bit about robot dogs.
I love this example so this is just a random picture it's not necessarily that exact robot dog that
is trained through reinforcement learning somebody at robot dogs especially the older ones you'd have
an algorithm in there and this is this actually a good example of the difference between pre-programmed
agents and reinforcement learning agents so you could have a Robo dog which is pre-programmed to how
to walk it will say so in the in the algorithm behind the dog and the software will say OK.
So in order to walk you need to test move your left leg forward left front leg forward then your back
right leg forward then your front right leg forward then your back left leg forward and repeat that
action and you know that's that's the definition of walking is a function inside this dog then it might
have you know how to sit how to stand and things like that whereas in a robot dog that is trained through
reinforcement learning what happens is you don't pre program.
This is the key concept to everything you're that you don't have any algorithm inside that is hardcoded
into the dog instead you have what we'll be discussing in the future you have this reinforcement learning
algorithm which is told that OK so the goal is for it to get from where you are now not knowing anything
to that to the end of the room for example.
And here are the certain actions you can take.
You can move your right foot you can move your left foot you can move your right back foot you later
left back foot.
So here are all the degrees of freedom and you can do you can move them like this you can move and I
got to make a list of actions you can take and your rewards are every time you take a step forward you
get a plus one every time you fall over you get a minus one and that's all there is to it and then they
just leave the dog and let it figure it out on its own.
So the dog tries to stand up it falls and then realizes that OK I shouldn't do that action that led
to me falling because every time I fall I get a minus one which is not good for me then so does that
other action that helped it stand up and then it figures out it just experiments experiments experiments
tries things randomly and then figures out that you can make a step forward by moving its right its
front foot and it gets a plus one and it realized I should do more of that.
Okay cool so it now learns that it should do more of this and less of that and through this learning
process it quickly very quickly understands how it can walk and those those dogs that figure it out
on their own can actually sometimes walk better than dogs that are pre-programmed because when we pre-programmed
things we look at the real live dogs and or you know we use our own imagination how to do it whereas
a reinforcement learning dog can optimize things on its own and because it's an A.I. sometimes it can
get even better results and that's how they can train these robot dog these are all the dogs to play
soccer you can't train a normal dog to play soccer because you know simply the whole approach is different
and it's not something that that you know probably a normal dog has been trained to do or has ever done
in its process of its evolution whereas a reinforcement learning robot dogs can very easily understand
how to play soccer as long as you tell them what the rewards are what the goals are what the possible
actions they can take.
So that is how reinforcement learning works in general that's a quick overview of reinforcement learning.
I hope that got you very excited about what's going to come next because it's a completely different
world compared to pre-programmed solutions or hard program hard coded solutions where you have the if
else conditions this is very different and we're going to be talking more about that in the meantime
we've got some additional reading for you so if you'd like to have some supporting materials here's
a great article which you can look at.
Look into it's called simple reinforcement learning with tensor flow.
It's got 10 parts.
The link is here and you'll find the full the clickable link on in the course resources is by Arthur
Giuliani.
The 2016 article and you can follow along this course and also get additional information from that
article.
But bear in mind that that article is tenser flow whereas in this course we are using pi torch so a
different implementation but in plantations but at the same time you might pick up a few things here
and there that might supplement your learning that we're going to be doing in this course.
So great article to follow.
Even if you're not considering following it for sure it is still just in case.
Check out that that first part and see if you like it see if you would like to read it a bit more and
then we've got specific to this tutorial about reinforcement learning.
There's a paper by Richard Sutton which is called reinforcement learning.
One introduction is the 1998 papers are quite old but at the same time you can learn a bit about reinforcement
learning.
Some of the examples like that omelet example and other examples of where reinforcement learning can
be applied and just a general overview of reinforcement learning.
If you are looking for some additional reading and on that note we're going to wrap up this tutorial.
Can't wait to see you next step.
And until then enjoy a.